# Dump

Shaddin:

Regarding approach (3), I have some thoughts. It seems to me that we want a function div which takes a finite set of points in Euclidean space \mathbb{R}^n and outputs a nonnegative real number which tells you how "diverse" or "spread out" they all are. So if S= \{ x_1, \ldots , x_k\}, then div(S) is some measure of how different these k points are. Here are some examples of "reasonable" such functions div :

Diameter of the set S (maximum distance between two points in S)
Average distance between two points in S
Volume of the convex hull of S
The minimum (or average) over all points x \in S of the distance from x to S \setminus x
There are many more "reasonable" choices like this. One could make stuff up like this all day. Here is an interesting approach that one can use to approach this: Can you write down a set of axioms that must be satisfied by any reasonable definition of div, and then use these axioms to show that div must have a particular form? This "axiomatic approach" is common in settings where you don't know what the "right" definition is, but you know it must satisfy some reasonableness properties, then can show that these axioms narrow down your space of definitions. See the nash bargaining solution, or von neumann morgenstern characterization of utility functions, or pretty much anything from social choice theory, for examples of the axiomatic approach to characterizing things. 

Here are some axioms that seem reasonable to require of our function div(.)
div(\phi) = div(\{x\}) = 0. In other words, the diversity of the empty set or a singleton is 0
div(S) \leq div(T) whenever S \subseteq T. With the inequality strict if S \neq T. In other words, if you add more points your diversity can only go up, and it must go strictly up if you add a new point. 
div(S) = div(S') if S'= S + y is the result of shifting each point in S by the same vector y. A possible stronger version of this, which I'm unsure of, is that div(S) = div(S') if S' is the result of applying an isometric linear operator to S.
There could be more axioms that one might want to add, but you get the idea. Basically, if one writes down a bunch of these and is convinced that each of them seems like it *should* be satisfied by any reasonable measure of diversity, then one might be surprised to find that they all together imply that reasonable measures of diversity can be characterized nicely so that we can study and explore the space in a disciplined way.
