# Shaddin 02/02/23

[Axiomatic Perspective](/home/dawei/.mind/data/20230201073306-Axiomatic-Perspective.md)

## Importance of measures functions in QD

In general, you cannot directly sample from measure space. To obtain the
measure of a solution, you have to evaluate its measure function, i.e., measure
functions are one-way.

> Bryon: you can't pick arbitrarily distance points in measures space because
> you don't know the mapping from solution to measures space.

However, in our combinatorics formulation, we can just evaluate the measure
functions to obtain the measures of the solution. This makes our problem easier
than the QD problem.

### Connection between measures and measure theory

## More assumptions

- In QD literature, the objective function is unbounded in general. It seems
  like the implicit assumption is that we know an area in which we should start
  in. For example, if we are dealing with the needle-in-a-hay-stack function,
  then we would assume that we know the precise location of the needle. 

## Existing diversity metrics

- Discrete archive: a rough approximation of distance between measures by
  tessellating the measure space. Well defined for a set of solutions.
- Continuous archive: based on average distance to $k$-NN. Undefined for a set
  of solution.

## [Kleinberg](/home/dawei/.mind/data/20230201043557-Kleinberg02Impossibility.md)

- The clustering function might be analogous to a novelty algorithm that finds
  a diverse set of points (**literature?**), and the distance function
  analogous to diversity measures.
