# QD Theory

## TODO

- [ ] Analyze a few more diversity metrics in terms of the Axioms that we came up with.
- [ ] ~~Prepare for theory lunch talk~~
      Reach out to Ph.D Students for collaboration

  > Shaddin: If you want to make faster progress, I recommend trying to engage
  > one of our excellent theory PhD students. I have a couple in mind that
  > I suspect might be a fit, but I think the best thing to do would be for you
  > to give a theory lunch talk and use that to engage someone. If I had to
  > throw out a name I suspect that Fatih would like and be adept this sort of
  > question, given the flavor of the work he's been doing with David, but I'll
  > leave it to you to reach out to whoever makes sense if any.

  - [ ] Slides
  - [ ] Practice with Aditya and Ram
  - [ ] Ask people to attend the talk on 2/9: Shanghua, Fatih, Sampad, Matt (?), Bryon (?)

- [ ] Read [An Axiomatic Approach to Community Detection](https://viterbi-web.usc.edu/~shanghua/itcs195.pdf)

  > There's also this paper by Shanghua and others. I know they are still working
  > on related questions. You might want to chat to Shanghua about this. Also,
  > look at their citations and reverse citations.

- [x] Read [An Impossibility Theorem for Clustering](https://proceedings.neurips.cc/paper/2002/file/43e4e6a6f341e00671e123714de019a8-Paper.pdf)

  > Shaddin: There's this paper by Jon Kleinberg, which looks at clustering
  > axiomatically. One might think this should be pretty closely related, since
  > being "clustered" is the opposite of being "spread out" or "diverse". But,
  > a closer look at the paper seems to reveal that what he's doing is quite
  > different, as he's axiomatizing the clustering function rather than the
  > measure of being clustered. Still, there might be a connection that
  > I haven't wrapped my head around so it's worth a closer look at the paper.
  >
  > You might look at other axiomatic approaches to clustering, which you might
  > be able to find by a reverse citation search from Kleinberg's paper on
  > google scholar. I recommend a thorough literature dive.

  The clustering function might be analogous to a novelty algorithm that finds
  a diverse set of points (**literature?**), and the distance function
  analogous to diversity measures.

## Research Questions

### Understanding the Problem: Quantifying/Defining Diversity

> Ignore objective function for now.

1. $\epsilon$-nets
1. Sampling
1. **Axioms**

### Efficient algorithm to find a set of quality and diverse points

## Problem Statement

Given set $\mathcal{X}$ of $K$ points sampled on
the function $f: D \to \R^d$.

$$
\begin{aligned}
\max \quad & \sum_{s \in S} f(s) \\
\textrm{subject to} \quad & S \textrm{ is diverse} \\
                          & S \subseteq \mathcal{X}
\end{aligned}
$$

## Approaches

This problem can be interpreted in a few perspectives.
