# Determinantal Point Processes (DPP)

The general concept of diversity can take on a number of forms depending on
context and application: 
- Including multiple kinds of search results might be seen as _covering_ or
  _summarizing_ relevant interpretations of the query or its associated topics.
- Items inhabiting a continuous space may exhibit diversity as a result of
  repulsion. In fact, certain repulsive quantum particles are known to be
  precisely described by a DPP; however, a DPP can also serve as a model for
  general repulsive phenomena, such as the locations of trees in a forest,
  which appear diverse due to physical and resource constraints. 
- Finally, diversity can be used as a filtering prior when multiple selections
  must be based on a single detector or scoring metric. For instance, in Figure
  3 a weak pose detector favors large clusters of poses that are nearly
  identical, but filtering through a DPP ensures that the final predictions are
  well-separated.

A point process $\mathcal{P}$ on a ground set $\mathcal{Y}$ is a probability
measure over "point patterns" of $\mathcal{Y}$.

WLOG, let $\mathcal{Y} = [N]$ be the ground set.

In the discrete setting, a point process is simply a probability measure on
$2^\mathcal{Y}$, the set of all subsets of $\mathcal{Y}$. $\mathcal{P}$ is
a **determinantal point process** if, when $Y$ is a random subset drawn
according to $\mathcal{P}$, we have, for every
$A \subseteq \mathcal{Y}$,
$$
\mathcal{P}(A \subseteq Y) = \det(K_A)
$$
for some real, symmetric $N \times N$ matrix $K$ indexed by the elements of
$\mathcal{Y}$. $K_A \equiv [K_{ij}]_{i,j \in A}$ denotes the restriction of
$K$ to the entries indexed by the elements of $A$, and $\det(K_\phi) = 1$.

Since $\mathcal{P}$ is a probability measure, $\det(K_A)$ must be non-negative
for all $A$, and thus $K$ must be positive semi-definite.

Note that, for $A = \{i\}$, we have
$$
\mathcal{P}(i \in Y) = K_{ii}
$$
That is, the diagonal of $K$ gives the marginal probabilities of inclusion for
individual elements of $\mathcal{Y}$. Futhermore, if $A = \{i, j\}$, then
$$
\begin{aligned}
\mathcal{P}(i, j \in Y) &= \begin{vmatrix}
K_{ii} & K_{ij} \\
K_{ji} & K_{jj}
\end{vmatrix} \\
&= K_{ii}K_{jj} - K_{ij}K_{ji} \\
&= \mathcal{P}(i \in Y) \mathcal{P}(j \in Y) - K_{ij}^2
\end{aligned}
$$
Note that, large values of $K_{ij}$ imply that $i$ and $j$ tend not to
co-occur.

Thus, we can think of the entries of $K$ as measurements of similarity between
pairs of elements in $\mathcal{Y}$ -- high similarity pairs are unlikely to
appear together. If $K_{ij} = \sqrt{K_{ii}K_{jj}}$, then $i$ and $j$ do not
appear together. Conversely, when $K$ is diagonal there is no correlations
and the elements appear independently.

> - How to determine $K_{ij}$?
> - How to sample from DPP?

Also note that, since $\mathcal{P}$ is a probability measure, 
$$
\begin{aligned}
  \mathcal{P}(i,j \in Y) &\ge 0 \\
  K_{ii}K_{jj} - K_{ij}^2 &\ge 0 \\
  - K_{ij}^2 &\ge -K_{ii} K_{jj} \\
  K_{ij}^2 &\le K_{ii}K_{jj}\\
  \sqrt{K_{ii}K_{jj}} \ge K_{ij} &\ge -\sqrt{K_{ii}K_{jj}}
\end{aligned}
$$
Since $K_{ii}, K_{jj} \le 1$ and $K$ is PSD, we have $0 \le K_{ij} \le 1$.


